                  History of Mars-GRAM program versions
 
 Ver    Date                              Comments
 ____  _______  ___________________________________________________________
 
 1.00  5/20/88  Preliminary version with earlier Stewart thermosphere
                model and no realistic latitude-longitude variation.
                Documented in ED44-5-20-88 preliminary report.
 
 2.00   7/1/89  Version documented in July, 1989 technical report. Has
                newer Stewart thermosphere model and realistic latitude-
                longitude variability.
 
 2.10   9/2/89  Adds version numbers to main and all subroutines. Corrects
                formats 790 and 795 in DATASTEP subroutine.
 
 2.11  10/2/89  Corrects "ATIO" to "RATIO" and "FH" to "PFH" in THERMOS
                subroutine. Corrects MARSGRAM, ATMOS2, DATASTEP,
                PRESSURE, PSURFACE, STEWART2, STRATOS, TEMPS, and
                TSURFACE to have lines <= 72 characters in length.
 
 2.20  10/7/89  Corrects illegal log call in THERMOS by adding ES factors
                to ZF in ATMOS2.  Adds EScalc subroutine in STEWART2.
                Changes name of terrain height file to HEIGHTS.DAT

 2.21  10/8/89  Removes character data from COMMON DATA and puts it in
                new COMMON FILENAME.
 
 2.22 11/16/89  Adds  REAL J2 to RELLIPS, and REAL nmals to PSURFACE.
                Changes Julian date by -0.5 to be consistent with
                astronomical convention of day starting at Greenwich
                noon.  ORBIT adds back 0.5 to Julian day for consistency
                with derivation of coefficients.

 3.0  10/14/91  Adds option for local-scale dust storm, and Zurek wave
                perturbation model.  Allows heights to go "below" local
                terrain height and return "realistic" pressure, density
                and temperature, not the surface values. Both Interactive
                and Batch versions available.  Batch version uses
                NAMELIST input, and is completely modular, so that the
                main driver program can easily be replaced by any
                calling program, such as a trajectory simulation program.

 3.1  12/17/92  Change comments and code for DENSRP output to be
                perturbations in %; change DENSLO output file to DENSRM,
                containing random perturbation magnitude in %; change 
                DENSHI output file to DENSWA, containing wave perturbation
                in %; add DENSWA to the OUTPUT file.  Modify DENSHI and
                DENSLO to include the wave perturbation amplitude.  Delete
                several unused variables from declaration statements in
                the MAIN routine and in subroutines SETUP, ATMOS2, 
                PSURFACE, STEWART2, DZDUST, THERMOS, and STRATOS.

 3.1   3/14/94  Transferred version 3.1 to MSFC UNIX environment and tested

 3.2  11/28/94  Corrected DENSHI, DENSLO initial value problem.  Added
                parameter value output to Datastep.  Modified DZDUST to use
                same dust storm start time and intensity as for lower
                altitude.  Changed output file units to iu0 for messages
                (normally screen) and iup for LIST output (iup = 0 also
                suppresses LIST and other output in batch version). 
                Corrected error in calculation of time-step correlations.
                Added line number codes in columns 73-80.  Sorted MARSSUBS
                into alphabetical order by line number codes.  Renamed 
                Commons RAND to RANDCOM and DATA to DATACOM.  Modified 
                E-format in LIST output to have a leading digit.  Made code
                consistent for indentation of If..Then..Else segments and 
                Do..Continue loops. Moved the NAMELIST read into SETUP for
                the batch version and removed the commons from the batch 
                main (to simplify the use of SETUP and DATASTEP as 
                subroutines in other driver programs). Deleted additional
                unused variables in ATMOS2 and ORBIT.  Defined pi180 in
                DATASTEP and corrected NVAR to NVARX.  Corrected slight
                inconsistency in pressure interpolation in subroutine
                STRATOS.  Added time (rel. to initial time) in sols to
                standard LIST file.  Added time and solar longitude to
                the OUTPUT list.

 3.3   2/7/95   Simplified vertical interpolation method in subroutine
                STRATOS.  Added DENSLO and DENSHI output files back
                ("1 sigma" density envelopes).  Corrected erroneous
                comments associated with file open statements in the
                batch version code. Added maxfiles option to suppress 
                output of TMAX, TMIN and TAVG files for systems that 
                cannot have more than 16 files open at one time (i.e. 
                set maxfiles = 16 in the Block Data routine).

 3.31  3/28/95  Added check for density perturbations not to exceed
                value set by wave instability (i.e. maximum perturbation
                magnitude consistent with d-theta/dz > 0).  Insured 
                that wave amplitudes are zero if wave perturbation
                model is not selected. Added output of F10.7 at 1AU
                and at Mars orbit.

 3.32  4/11/95  Added COSPAR NH mean atmosphere and output of density
                deviations from COSPAR values (also new option logscale
                = 2).  Suppress output of NSWIND and EWWIND if maxfiles 
                = 16.

 3.33   8/9/95  Takes polar cap radius from Alb function and makes it
                a separate function, polecap.  Uses new regressions
                for Tavg versus Absorb (the daily average surface-
                absorbed solar flux).  Uses new regression for diurnal
                temperature amplitude (Tamp) versus Qa [the diurnal
                range (midnight-noon difference) in surface-absorbed
                solar flux].  These changes in temperature regressions
                are all in the Tsurface subroutine.

 3.34  11/1/95  Added comments for JPL Programmer's Guide.  Corrected
                logic error in density to OUTPUT file (added format
                810). Corrected problem with crlat and polar in 
                Tsurface. Corrected semi-diurnal term in dusty-case
                wave model.  Corrected term in maximum mountain-wave
                perturbation model.

 3.4  4/1/96  Added climate factors for temperature profile (CF0-
              CF75), adjustment factors for base height of 
              thermosphere (deltaZF), temperature at base of 
              thermosphere (deltaTF) and exospheric temperature   
              (deltaTEX).  Included new subroutine Thermpar to compute
              thermospheric parameters based on parameterizations from  
              the Bougher Mars Thermospheric Global Circulation Model 
              (MTGCM), including new variations with latitude and 
              local solar time.  Adjusted wind coefficient in 
              thermospheres to better agree with MTGCM winds.  
              Revised the calculation of solar longitude in the 
              ORBIT subroutine, using 687-day and 777-day period 
              terms. Added default values for batch version input, 
              so that only non-reference parameter values need be 
              in the INPUT NAMELIST file.  Added a re-check of the 
              final density perturbation values so that the 
              stability limits will not be exceeded. Added output of 
              the solar latitude and the orbital radius to the LIST 
              file.  Changed xycode output to local solar time in 
              hours (from hour angle in degrees). Added output to 
              LIST file of local exospheric temperature, temperature 
              and height of base of thermosphere, for output 
              altitudes above 75 km.

 3.5   7/96  Changed temperature renormalization to be at 25 km above
             reference ellipsoid datum, not 25 km above local terrain height.
             Removed terms producing large gradient in surface pressure
             poleward of 55 deg.  Added option (ipopt) to do hydrostatic
             interpolation from 75 km to 1.26 nbar.  Added climate adjustment
             factor for surface pressure (CFp). Added calculation of density
             scale height [H(rho), retaining pressure scale height H(p)].
             Added plot output files for density scale height [file=HGTrho,
             unit=35, files(18)], temperature of 1.26 nbar level [file=Tbase,
             unit=36, files(19)], and height of 1.26 nbar level [file=Zbase,
             unit=37, files(20)].  Added option for plot output versus
             pressure level (NVARX or NVARY = 9).  Increased minimum and
             maximum allowed random perturbation magnitudes (by about a
             factor of 2), and added input of random perturbation scale
             factor (rpscale), with allowable values 0-3.  Changed lapse
             rates 30 - 50 km and 50 - 75 km (to 1.19 K/km and 0.44 K/km,
             respectively).  Corrected problem with computing position
             displacements (DELHGT, DELLAT and DELLON) in mode when
             trajectory file (TRAJDATA) is read in.

 3.6  11/96  Added Monte Carlo feature in Batch version and created new dummy
             trajectory-computing version (marstraj).  Optional NAMELIST
             format INPUT now includes NMONTE = number on Monte Carlo runs
             and iup [0 to suppress LIST and graphics output files; iup not
             equal to zero causes output of LIST and graphics files
             (default)].  Added random seed (NR1) and NMONTE to argument
             list of SETUP subroutine.  Rewind trajectory input data file
             (TRAJDATA) when end-of-file is encountered.  Apply random
             perturbation scaling factor (rpscale) to SIGD, DENSHI, and
             DENSLO. Include new subroutine Randinit to re-initialize the
             random number seed (NR1) for each Monte Carlo run.  NOTE THAT
             NO INTERACTIVE VERSION 3.6 IS PROVIDED.  Batch (and dummy
             trajectory) version 3.6 and interactive version 3.5 should give
             the same output if identical input parameters are used
             [including NMONTE = 1 (the default case)].

 3.7  6/97   Added time- or latitude-dependent climate factors (CFs) on
             trajectory input data. CFs include (CF0, CF5, CF15, CF30, CF50,
             CF75, CFp, deltaZF, deltaTF, and deltaTEX).  To use CFs from
             the INPUT file, use CFs of 0.0 on the trajectory input file.
             Non-zero CFs on the trajectory input file will supersede those
             on the INPUT file.  Two auxiliary programs are provided for
             adding CFs to trajectory files:  Program bldmgt.f will generate
             a "trajectory" consisting of user-defined steps in height,
             latitude, longitude, and time. Program rdmgt.f will read a
             previously generated trajectory data file (TRAJDATA, containing
             time, height, latitude, and longitude) and will add CFs.  Both
             bldmgt and rdmgt programs interpolate CFs from an auxiliary CF
             data file (cfinfo.txt, see description in bldmgt.f or rdmgt.f
             source code).

 3.8 11/98   Code line numbers (in parentheses) give approximate starting
             line(s) where changes appear in code. Changed former batch
             version code line numbers from MARB to MGRM (MGRM 1). Reduced
             number of graphics output files; included more variables in
             each file (SETU 36, SETU 90, DSTP 280); See file "headers.txt".
             Changed to NASA Ames low resolution topography (SETU 15), using
             average terrain height at poles for all longitudes.  Decreased
             temperature gradient at polar cap edge (ALBL 26, TSRF 53a).
             Revised procedure whereby input heights <= -5 km are treated as
             being at the terrain surface (ATM2 54b, ATM2 82, DSTF 14).
             Revised lapse rate at surface for surface temperature 
             calculation (ATM2 67, ATM2 99).  Revised perturbation magnitudes 
             versus height (ATM2 217b, DSTP 50a, DSTP 199b).  New iterative
             procedure for finding ZF (height of 1.26 nbar level) for hydrostatic
             interpolation option (ATM2 2144a).  Pressure scale height added
             to DATASTEP output (DSTP 2a).  Added corlim factor (ratio of
             trajectory step size to minimum size for assured perturbation
             accuracy) with warning messages if corlim < 1 (DSTP 80). Added
             gradient wind (curvature) correction to winds (DSTP 160g). Added
             check to limit wind components to less than sound speed divided
             by square root of two (DSTP 151a, DSTP 160h). Delete low
             latitude wind model based on second derivatives. Treat "surface"
             winds as being at 10 cm, rather than Viking level of 1.6 m (DSTP
             165).  Added new wind perturbation model, including tidal winds
             (DSTP 229, DSTP 244c, WAVE 91, MGRM 88). Included computation of
             F1 ionization peak altitude and molecular weight; added to
             output files (DSTP 246i, DSTP 290, DSTP 254d, STRA 47a).  Added
             climate factors to LIST output (DSTP 256a). Convert surface
             pressure latitude variation to cosine terms, to insure diurnal
             amplitude goes to zero at the poles (PSRF 61).  Changed to new
             values of reference ellipsoid radii, gravity term, and rotation
             rate (consistent with current JPL values) (RLPS 9a, RLPS 18a).
             Added centrifugal term to gravity (RLPS 22).  Use molecular
             scale temperature in stratospheric interpolation to account for
             height variation of molecular weight (STRA 16, STRA 47h).
             Remove ES(8) and ES(9) terms from calculation of ZF, but not TF;
             make perturbation standard deviations more consistent in
             thermosphere (STW2 37d).  Include effect of height change of
             molecular weight in computation of density scale height (STW2
             61a, THRM 133b). Add Pathfinder landing site to set of locations
             that have terrain height specified (TERN 12a).  Apply climate
             factors to minimum, maximum and average surface temperatures
             (TMPS 138e).  Include Cos(LAT)/Cos(75) factor in wave 
             perturbations, to insure zero amplitude at the poles (WAVE 77a). 
             Allow variable climate factors to be passed from trajectory program
             to Mars-GRAM subroutines (CFIN 1, MART 58b).  Allow optional high
             resolution solar positions to be passed from trajectory program
             to Mars-GRAM subroutines (DUMT 35a, MGRM 72, DSTP 35).  Add
             subroutine SublTchk to assure that temperatures do not go below
             CO2 sublimation temperature (ATM2 72d, ATM2 106b, PRES 29a,
             STCK 1, STRA 47k, THRM 132b).

Mars- 03/00  All parameterizations for temperature versus height, latitude, 
GRAM         longitude, time of day, and Ls and for surface pressure versus
2000         latitude, longitude, time of day, and Ls have been replaced by
(ver 1)      input data tables.  These tables give variation of temperature,
             density, pressure and wind components with height, latitude,
             time of day, and Ls.  The tables also provide boundary layer
             data at 5m and 30m above the surface as a function of longitude.
             The tables are from the NASA Ames Mars Global Circulation Model
             (MGCM), for the surface through 80 km altitude, and from the
             University of Arizona Mars Thermospheric Global Circulation
             Model (MTGCM) for 80 - 170 km altitude.  The modified Stewart
             thermospheric model is still used for higher altitudes, and for
             dependence on solar activity.  With this direct input of MGCM
             and MTGCM data, there is no longer a need to input "climate
             factors" (CF0 through CF75, CFp, deltaTF and deltzZF). 
             Adjustment of exospheric temperature by the parameter deltaTEX
             is still an option.  Consistent with observations from Mars
             Global Surveyor, a new longitude-dependent wave model is
             included, with user-input amplitudes and phases for waves 1
             through 3 (1 - 3 wavelengths around the planet). Wave model
             coefficients can be input from the NAMELIST format input file,
             or from an auxiliary file of time-dependent wave model 
             coefficients.  A simplified version of the mountain wave
             perturbation model has been substituted for the earlier one. 
             The simplified model does not require evaluation of surface 
             density and temperature gradients (to get Brunt Vaisala frequency).
             With MGCM and MTGCM data input for several dust optical depths
             (tau), the global value of tau can be provided as an input, or
             if tau = 0 is input, a prescribed Viking-like seasonal variation
             of dust optical depth is used.  The global or local dust storm
             model is retained, with the program doing all necessary 
             interpolations on dust optical depth as it varies with time (Ls,
             and with space, for local storms).  A switch (LonEW) allows users
             to select to use East Longitude positive, rather than the USGS
             map standard of West Longitude positive.  Default (LonEW = 0) is
             still West Longitude positive.  The LonEW switch also determines
             if the longitude wave model phases are in West or East 
             Longitude.  Options are now provided whereby the user can specify
             the name of the NAMELIST format input file, the name of the
             (optional) trajectory input file, and the path names to the
             directories where the MGCM, MTGCM and other input data reside.

Mars- 05/01  Revised to use Mars Orbiter Laser Altimeter (MOLA) topography
GRAM         at 1/2 x 1/2 degree resolution.  Altitude is defined as height
2001         above the MOLA areoid (equipotential surface).  Optionally,
(ver 1)      input height information can be given as height above old
             reference ellipsoid, then converted to height above MOLA
             areoid within the program.  Revised MGCM data, based on MOLA
             topography, are used for 0 - 80 km. MTGCM data are the same as
             for Mars-GRAM 2000 at moderate solar activity (F10.7 = 130),
             with an added MTGCM data set at low solar activity (F10.7 = 70).
             MTGCM dependence on solar activity is interpolated/extrapolated
             logarithmically on F10.7. Fairing between MTGCM data and Stewart
             model thermosphere is now done over the interval 155 - 170 km
             (instead of ZF to 170 km, as in Mars-GRAM 2000).  Height
             adjustment (with new parameter zoffset) of the MTGCM data is
             now an option.  A new file, hgtoffst.dat, gives the height
             offsets required to get best match between the MOLA-based MGCM
             data and the Mars-GRAM 2000 MTGCM data, on a global basis.
             Optionally, local height offset required for MGCM-MTGCM matchup
             can be computed and used, or a Ls-dependent height offset can
             be applied. Height offset due to a dust storm is also computed
             and added to any input offset.  Duration of dust storm (in
             degrees of Ls angle) is also controlled by a new input parameter
             ALSDUR. LOGSCALE = 3 now allows output of densities in units of 
             kg/km**3 (appropriate for high altitudes). A new set of MGCM 
             temperature data at the surface allows more realistic boundary 
             layer temperature gradients, using a logarithmic profile. A 
             boundary layer model is used to estimate difference between 
             ground temperature and air temperature immediately above the 
             ground.  New parameter hgtasfcm allows easy evaluation of 
             atmospheric variables at any fixed height above the surface 
             (0 - 4500 m).  For easier comparison with General Circulation Model
             data, two new output parameters are introduced: sigma level = 
             local pressure divided by surface pressure, and pressure height 
             = -Log(sigma). Daily output data now includes local daily minimum 
             temperature and density, and local daily maximum temperature and 
             density. Longitude dependent wave perturbations now applied to
             daily density as well as density at local place and time. Height
             above the old reference ellipsoid is also an available output
             parameter. A new output file, MarsRad.txt, contains (along with
             other output files) necessary information for input to a new
             auxiliary program (marsrad.f) that computes solar and thermal
             radiation fluxes at the surface and top-of-atmosphere. File
             MarsRad.txt contains quantitative dust loading parameters,
             column mass per unit area, local dust mixing ratio, and dust
             mass and number of particles per unit volume. Surface albedo,
             interpolated from new albedo input file, is also output on file
             MarsRad.txt.
             
Mars- 09/03  More precise ephemeris for solar angles and positions; uses
GRAM         IAU 2000 rotation coordinates, computes one-way light time,
2005         and allows input time to be Earth-receive time or Mars-event
(beta        time and Terrestrial Dynamical time or UTC. User input for
ver 0)       equatorial and polar radii of reference ellipsoid, and option
             for input height and latitude to be planeto-centric or planeto-
             graphic (with respect to ellipsoid) or planeto-centric with
             respect to MOLA (GSFC) areoid. Output height can also still be
             planeto-centric with respect to MOLA topographic surface.
             Perturbation model modified to allow more control of how often
             to update perturbations (or to update mean conditions without
             updating perturbations). New feature to allow repeat of random 
             perturbation sequence in trajectory program (example program 
             dumytraj.f).  Also provide new example trajectory program 
             (multtraj.f) that allows atmospheric values and perturbations 
             to be evaluated at multiple positions during one trajectory 
             run.  Vertical wind perturbation model added.  New input 
             parameters allow separate scaling for density and wind 
             perturbations, and multiplier factor for perturbation scale 
             lengths, as well as scaling factor for mean winds.  Minimum 
             and maximum dust tau values for seasonal variation in dust 
             optical depth (input Dusttau = 0) can be input.  New slope wind 
             model (based on Ye, Segal, and Pielke, 1990) computes MOLA 
             slope effects on winds from 0 - 4.5 km above the surface (day) 
             or 0 - 2.5 km (night). Slope winds can also be scaled with an 
             input factor (with 0 factor to suppress slope wind output). 
             Option for traveling component of longitude-dependent waves 
             1 - 3 now included.

Mars- 12/03  Added vertical component for slope winds, also scaled with
GRAM         slope wind factor.  Vertical slope winds are computed from  
2005         terrain slope times total horizontal wind (mean horizontal
(beta        wind plus horizontal slope wind). Vertical slope winds are 
ver 0)       computed over height range 0 - 4.5km above the surface (day) 
             or 0 - 2.5 km (night), and are added to vertical perturbed 
             winds, with the combined vertical wind output as "VertWind" 
             in the LIST file and "VWpert" in the winds.txt file. Modified
             maximum magnitudes for random density and wind perturbations, 
             using revised wave saturation condition. Total variance at
             aerobraking altitudes now accounted for only by combination
             of variance from small-scale random perturbations plus 
             stationary or travelling long waves.  Added species 
             concentration output. Dispensed with fairing between MTGCM
             and Stewart models above 155 km, in favor of adjustment of
             the Stewart model to agree with MTGCM values at the top of
             the altitude range for which they are available.  Adjustment
             to the Stewart model continues upward from the last 
             available MTGCM level to all higher altitudes.
             
Mars- 10/04  At request of GN&C customers concerned about interface with
GRAM         double-precision trajectory codes, converted all 
2005         calculations to double precision.  Added new MGCM and MTGCM 
(D.P.        data sets for TES mapping years 1 and 2 and new subroutines
beta         in file TESsubs.f. Option to use previous (Mars-GRAM 2001 
ver 1)       MGCM and MTGCM) data or new TES mapping year 1 and 2 data is
             controlled by new input option MapYear (= 0 to use previous
             data).  New data sets were produced from MGCM and MTGCM
             models using TES-observed global distributions of dust 
             optical depth.  These used new techniques for better
             matchup of MGCM and MTGCM data near 80 km.  Required height
             offsets for best MGCM/MTGCM matchup are now much smaller 
             (although not zero). Added output of height offset values
             on LIST.txt and Density.txt files.  Added option to 
             substitute auxiliary input profile of thermodynamic and/or
             wind data for MGCM/MTGCM climatology, within user-specified
             region. Use of this option controlled by (optional) input
             profile file name and parameters profnear and proffar.
             For TES mapping year > 0, switch-over from MTGCM to Stewart
             thermosphere values extending upward to 240 km. Converted
             to option for long file names for LIST, OUTPUT, TRAJECTORY
             files, etc. (up to character*60).  Added option to suppress
             daily max/min data calculations, to increase run speed.
             In order for users implementing multiple atmospheric models 
             into one trajectory code to avoid duplication of names for 
             source code files, subroutines, functions, and common blocks, 
             suffix '_M05' was appended to all these names.  No suffix 
             was appended in source code for auxiliary programs (e.g.
             marsrad.f).  Modified routine to automatically generate 
             random seed numbers.

Mars- 03/05  Replaced bogus Map Year 2 MTGCM data (replicated Year 1 data)
GRAM         with correct Year 2 MTGCM data. Deleted unused variable
2005         maxfiles from Common DATACOM.  Fixed problem with perturbation
(D.P.        correlation terms RHOd, RHOu, and RHOv in wrapper routine.
ver 1)       Simplified input/output of variables in wrapper routine.
             Corrected problem with water vapor concentrations at high 
             near-surface temperatures.  Corrected problem with dust mass
             density if LOGSCALE = 3.  Added option to interpret input height
             values > 3000 km as planeto-centric radius (in km).  Corrected
             comments in topoareo subroutine and README files to correctly
             indicate original MOLA data is in IAU 1991 (not IAU 1997)
             rotation coordinates [This is a correction in comments only;
             topoareo code is not affected].

Mars- 10/05  Patch to fix problem of unnecessary calls to random number 
GRAM         generator when perturbation updates are not being done.
2005         Revisions to subroutine ProfTerp to allow dual-valued 
(Ver 1.1)    auxiliary profiles (e.g. inbound and outbound legs of an
             aerocapture trajectory).  Add transmittance output to MarsRad
             program; make heatrate option user-input controlled.
             
Mars- 09/06  Changed 3-D and 4-D interpolation/extrapolation routines to 
GRAM         work in logarithmic scale for density and pressure (still 
2005         linear scale for temperature and winds).  Logarithmic 
(Ver 1.2     extrapolation for dust optical depth is important, because 
  Sep 06)    of certain high-altitude cases where MGCM data are so 
             sensitive to dust loading that linear extrapolation to 
             optical depths as low as 0.1 (from data at tau = 0.3 and 
             1.0) can yield negative density or pressure.  Added "Save" 
             commands insure necessary variables are treated as "static", 
             for compilers which do not default to this option. Other 
             changes (which have no effect on output): (1) insure a default 
             value is assigned to input parameter blwinfac, and (2) delete 
             unnecessary reassignment of various perturbation scale 
             parameters.

Mars- 12/06  Patch to correct Densmax and P1max interpolation error for case  
GRAM         when idaydata = 0
2005
(Ver 1.2
  Dec 06)

Mars-  2/07  Patch to correct for missing rwscale effect on part of SIGW
GRAM         from near-surface altitudes
2005
(Ver 1.2
  Feb 07)  

Mars-  7/07  Patch to add effect of wave perturbations to auxiliary profile
GRAM         pressure and density input data, and correct effect of wave
2005         perturbations on Stewart thermosphere output.
(Ver 1.2
  Jul 07) 
  
Mars-  9/09  Patch to adjust input values of MGCM Map Year 0 pressure and 
GRAM         density for dust optical depths 0.3, 1.0, and 3, to achieve 
2005         better match with Map Years 1 and 2 MGCM output at comparable  
(Ver 1.3     dust loading. Patch to allow Ls-dependent dust storms to start 
  Sep 09)    as early as Ls = 120.
  
Mars-  9/10  Fortran 90 Mars-GRAM version. Uses more standard PC binary form
GRAM         input data files. Applies empirical adjustment factors to MGCM
2010         and MTGCM input data, to achieve better comparison with TES
(Ver 1.0     Limb data in the 0 - 60 km height range, and MRO and Odyssey
 Beta        aerobraking data above about 95 km.  Adjustment factors depend
 Sep 10)     on Ls, latitude, and altitude.  Most significant adjustments are
             for large dust optical depths (> 1.0). NAMELIST input files must
             now have identifier $INPUT_M10 in 1st line, instead of $INPUT.
 
 Mars- 11/10 Revised empirical adjustment factors for MTGCM data, derived by
 GRAM        comparison with MGS, ODyssey and MRO aerobraking observations.
 2010        Forces agreement between (revised) Map Year 0 MGCM at 80 km and
 (Ver 1.0    (revised) Map Year 0 MTGCM at 80 km. Revised standard deviations   
  Nov 10)    of the perturbation model, based on comparisons with MGS, ODY, 
             and MRO aerobraking observations.  Eliminated parameter STDL 
             from the Namelist input (STDL is now superceded by the revised
             perturbation standard deviations).